Why aren't you taking the bus?
By Emillio Daniel - April 8, 2018 @ 1:21pm

I STEPPED out of my apartment at 10am; the temperature had breached the negative. I waited for the 10:06am bus to campus 
provided by the Iowa City Transit and as I boarded it, I noticed a classmate heading to the same class on foot, her coat 
billowing.
After class, I asked her why she didn’t take the bus to class. It turned out she did not know how the bus transport worked or 
about the free shuttle service to the city. I have heard similar responses to the use of public transport in the past. Is 
there a lack of prominent public information on public transportation to alert people to its convenience?
I use the Bongo app to check public transportation schedules in Iowa but sometimes the data is scrambled, outdated and 
inaccurate, with15-minute delays in either direction. The digital monitor of bus arrivals may also be out of order.
I reflected on my life back home in Shah Alam. The bus stops were often badly maintained and the bus route display boards were 
often broken or the ink had faded away. These problems probably upscale with the rise in population of an area. According to 
the United States Census Bureau, as of last year, Iowa City has a population of 74,000 while the Majlis Bandaraya Shah Alam 
website states that Shah Alam is home to 650,000 people. The number of bus routes increases with the rise in population. 
Instead of a route name, MyRapid uses a number system that can get confusing and difficult to remember.
Most bus companies post their schedules on their websites. The MyRapid website allows users to input the start and end 
locations to find the shortest bus route within its ecosystem. It also displays fare prices as well as an estimate of the 
travel time.
Several third party applications available on the iOS and Google application stores allow users to plan their journey. I 
recommend Moovit app and website as they include train and walking routes into their calculations which are useful if your 
destination is not connected via a direct route. These solutions rely on the public to actively look them up while most will 
check the display boards for schedules.
If you are a student, who travel to and from campus regularly, and you may even have a car, why should you use public 
transportation? Actually “Why aren’t you taking the bus?” is a better question.
Let’s start with a downside of taking the bus.
A paper published for the Asia Pacific International Conference on Environment Behaviour Studies by Universiti Teknologi MARA 
in September 2013 studied traffic conditions and the different transport management at several universities and provided 
empirical evidence on campus bus service efficacy as well as the green gestures in ensuring a sustainable environment.
It found that though 51.5 per cent of students travelled on campus buses, student satisfaction with the services averaged at 
3.24 from a maximum of five. Ridership between peak hours and off-peak periods varied significantly. While the seating 
capacity was 40 passengers for most campus buses, the number was greatly exceeded during peak hours. This caused congestion at 
waiting areas and overloading on buses. The mean score for waiting time and punctuality of bus service came out the lowest 
compared to other aspects at 2.77 and 2.84 respectively.
The lack of easy access to accurate information and these findings show the reason why one does not care to find out more 
about public transportation.
However, there are many advantages to public transportation. My fellow students, you wake up in the morning every day trying 
to get to class on time, you are often sleepy from studying all night and driving a car may not be as safe as you would like. 
The solution is to take the bus and take a short nap on the way to feel refreshed by the time you arrive at class.
And it is a good time to read a book to prepare for class and offer some free time in your day. If your commute amounts to 
more than an hour, it is a time to be productive.

Penang express bus operators want authorities to act on 'ulat tiket'

GEORGE TOWN: More than 15 express bus operators at the Sungai Nibong Express Bus Terminal here, are crying foul over 
‘harassment’ by ‘ulat tiket’ (ticket touts), who are demanding up to RM18 for each ticket sold. They claimed that their 
businesses had dipped significantly since the beginning of the month, after they refused to pay off the ticket touts. A 
spokesman for the group, Edward Lim, who owns Billion Stars Express, said no action has been taken by the enforcement agencies 
against the ticket touts despite numerous reports lodged since April 1. They also lodged a complaint with the Penang Island 
City Council. He said the situation was not that bad under the Land Public Transport Commission (SPAD) but worsened when the 
Land Public Transport Agency (APAD) took over. Relating their ordeal, Lim said the ticket touts phenomenon was nothing new and 
they used to pay off the ticket touts between RM12 and RM18 for each of the express bus ticket sold. When they first moved 
into the terminal 15 years ago, they only paid the ticket touts between RM2 and RM3 for a ticket sold. However, due to the 
rising costs, they negotiated with the ticket touts to only pay them RM7 for each ticket sold since the beginning of this 
month but the latter demanded RM12. “We refused to give in, so they started making things very difficult for us. “These touts, 
who parked themselves at all eight staircases leading to the ticket counters on the top floor, would prevent customers from 
coming to our counters. They would bring the customers to the other companies which paid them the amount they demanded for. 
“Things are getting bad that we only managed to sell less than 20 tickets daily from the nearly 2,000 ticket available from 
the more than 15 bus companies. “The majority of us have started feeling the pinch. I don’t know how long more we can sustain 
our businesses. Some of us are only dependent on tickets sold via online. “We don’t know who are behind these ticket touts, 
that they are so brave to act this way,” he told newsmen here today. Lim said more than 15 bus operators covered about 50 per 
cent of the express bus trips out of Penang daily. Lim urged the authorities to take the necessary actions against the ticket 
touts. “Until then, we are all considering operating outside the terminal and in Komtar. From tomorrow onwards, we will not 
enter the terminal proper but will instead park our buses along the roadside to pick up passengers. “If action is taken 
against us promptly, then something must be wrong as our complaints are not acted upon,” he added. The New Straits Times is 
trying to get the authorities for comment.
KUALA LUMPUR: A morning ride in a Go KL City Bus through the streets of Kuala Lumpur during the Hari Raya break revealed the challenges of a public bus driver.
Despite the car-free roads, the bus driver faced numerous obstacles as he weaved in and out of lanes from the Pasar Seni bus hub where the journey started.
The obstacles were not only caused by motorists who parked illegally but those waiting along the roads, including at bus stops.
At one point, I came across an illegally-parked vehicle bearing the Kuala Lumpur City Hall (DBKL) logo near the Kota Raya bus stop.
I got on the Purple Line bus, which goes through 14 stops and noticed that almost all bus stops had cars parked in front or cars with drivers waiting for passengers.
Some bus stops had taxi drivers hogging the space, waiting for customers.
The bus driver I was with struggled to pass through the bus stops and had to drop his passengers in the middle of the road.
“This is a disaster waiting to happen.
“One day someone is going to get involved in an accident because of this,” the bus driver said.
The 51-year-old, who has been driving for more than 30 years and with the Go KL City Bus for almost seven years, was familiar with some of the cars parked at bus stops.
“You see that taxi, 3377; this fellow waits here every day.
“Once I told him to move as his vehicle was obstructing me from dropping a passenger.
“He stared at me, and continued to wait there. What am I supposed to do? I just drive pass la...
“The red car you see here (as we passed by Kota Raya), belongs to the owner of the massage parlour over there.
“I have never seen this car not parked here. What are DBKL and the traffic police doing? I don’t know,” he said.
Earlier, the bus driver shared his experience of passengers hurling profanities at him for not picking them up or dropping them off at the bus stops.
As he was talking to me, a passenger gave him a death stare for dropping her off slightly further from the bus stop, thanks to cars parked at the bus stop.
Before I got off the bus at Pasar Seni, the driver said that parking vehicles illegally at the bus stops could only be stopped when enforcement officers take action.
One can only hope that this “disaster waiting to happen” can be addressed soon before it claims someone’s life.
Bus driver has no choice but to drop off passengers in middle of road
KUALA LUMPUR: A morning ride in a Go KL City Bus through the streets of Kuala Lumpur during the Hari Raya break revealed the challenges of a public bus driver.
Despite the car-free roads, the bus driver faced numerous obstacles as he weaved in and out of lanes from the Pasar Seni bus hub where the journey started.
The obstacles were not only caused by motorists who parked illegally but those waiting along the roads, including at bus stops.
At one point, I came across an illegally-parked vehicle bearing the Kuala Lumpur City Hall (DBKL) logo near the Kota Raya bus stop.
I got on the Purple Line bus, which goes through 14 stops and noticed that almost all bus stops had cars parked in front or cars with drivers waiting for passengers.
Some bus stops had taxi drivers hogging the space, waiting for customers.
The bus driver I was with struggled to pass through the bus stops and had to drop his passengers in the middle of the road.
“This is a disaster waiting to happen.
“One day someone is going to get involved in an accident because of this,” the bus driver said.
The 51-year-old, who has been driving for more than 30 years and with the Go KL City Bus for almost seven years, was familiar with some of the cars parked at bus stops.
“You see that taxi, 3377; this fellow waits here every day.
“Once I told him to move as his vehicle was obstructing me from dropping a passenger.
“He stared at me, and continued to wait there. What am I supposed to do? I just drive pass la...
“The red car you see here (as we passed by Kota Raya), belongs to the owner of the massage parlour over there.
“I have never seen this car not parked here. What are DBKL and the traffic police doing? I don’t know,” he said.
Earlier, the bus driver shared his experience of passengers hurling profanities at him for not picking them up or dropping them off at the bus stops.
As he was talking to me, a passenger gave him a death stare for dropping her off slightly further from the bus stop, thanks to cars parked at the bus stop.
Before I got off the bus at Pasar Seni, the driver said that parking vehicles illegally at the bus stops could only be stopped when enforcement officers take action.
One can only hope that this “disaster waiting to happen” can be addressed soon before it claims someone’s life.

Waiting for the bus: The need to improve public transportation in KL

OCTOBER 3 — Ratan Tata had a vision. During his stewardship of the Tata Group, he sought to produce a car that was to be sold 
at 1 lakh (roughly around RM5,892). However, the Tata Nano was met with lukewarm response and didn’t revolutionise the 
automotive industry as some people predicted. Mr Tata was driven to manufacture affordable cars to make them more accessible 
to the poor. He was motivated to do so when he saw the ubiquitous phenomenon of more than two persons on a motorcycle. It is 
heart wrenching to see sometimes two or three toddlers precariously clinging to the backs of their father just to get to 
school on time. As much as we go on about how dangerous this is, to most who are economically marginalised, it is a practical 
necessity and a reality. The same phenomenon that Mr Tata witnessed in the streets of Mumbai is not unfamiliar in Kuala 
Lumpur. Families have to take a huge gamble every day because the government has failed in its core responsibility to provide 
access to public transportation. The solution to the problem of getting around places lies not in making private automobiles 
cheaper. That has many downsides as increasing the amount of automobiles on the road will only lead to the propensity for more 
accidents to happen and cause massive traffic jams. The realistic solution is to broaden the reach of public transportation. 
Improving, but still wanting Public transportation has been identified as one of the key areas of the National Key Result Area 
(NKRA). RapidKL has been commissioned with operating the bus and rail systems in KL. The government has recognised that rail 
is an essential component of public transport; this can be seen in their investments in the MRT and the electrified railway 
project from KL to Padang Besar. The KTM Komuter, notorious for its long waiting times and inefficient service, has made great 
strides. Now, there’s only a gap of 15 minutes between trains. It is positive that finally the government has done something 
to improve public transportation after decades of neglect. The years of prioritising Proton and constructing endless highways 
ought to end. It’s time to recalibrate our priorities to ensure that people hop onto a bus instead of taking the car. Yet, 
despite the progress made it is still not enough. People still elect to take their own private vehicles instead of public 
transportation. During rush hour, traffic jams are notorious, with a sea of red brake lights engulfing major highways. Kuala 
Lumpur still fails the public transportation litmus test: can you go anywhere within the parameters of the city in reasonable 
time by using only public transport? The answer for KL is clearly no. The LRT, monorail and KTM reach limited areas. Buses, 
which have a more extensive network, are less reliable because of the lack of frequency and punctuality. Of course, the blame 
is not solely on the bus network; traffic jams contribute to the lack of punctuality of buses and serve to only lengthen this 
vicious cycle. The causes of this are partly structural, partly cultural. It’s structural because the government is still 
failing to make public transportation a viable alternative to those who own private vehicles. Companies are also unwilling to 
offer incentives to employees to take public transport. Town planning is also poor as one most certainly needs some sort of 
private vehicle to get around. Recognising that the tropical climate is not the best climate to be walking about in, more 
pedestrian walkways should be built. Despite these improvements, we’re still far behind. The breakdowns at the LRT are far too 
frequent. There are no bus schedules, thus it makes it difficult for a person without Internet access to plan journeys. The 
15-minute interval at the KTM is too long a time to wait, as those with cars can go a considerable distance within 15 minutes. 
I used to take the bus to work. But the U88 from Kota Damansara to Bangsar (the only bus to Bangsar from Kota Damansara) would 
take two hours during rush hour as compared to half an hour by car. The trade off is either time or cost, both equally 
unpleasant. Public transport should also be cheaper. It is sickening to see the amount of subsidies spent on petrol, which 
benefits the middle to rich class when such sums could have gone to subsidising the cost of public transport and invest more 
in its maintenance and expansion. Companies should also do more to contribute. They should devise incentives for car pooling, 
and if they offer seasonal car parks, employees should be able to monetise it to fund the costs of public transport. Less 
fashionable, but safer Cars should not be seen as a symbol of status in the sense that an acquisition of one would mean that 
one has achieved the middle class dream. Instead it ought to be seen as a pollution churning machine that incinerates one’s 
savings due to the costs involved in purchasing and maintaining it. Private vehicles are way more dangerous than say, trains. 
While trains derailing are not unheard of, on a balance of probabilities, there’s a higher chance of private vehicles 
colliding than the former happening. We hear about people perishing in ghastly road accidents, something we hear in the news 
almost weekly, I’m struck by how meaningless these deaths are because of human miscalculation. We’re accustomed to such 
stories so that it’s not shocking anymore; we’ve become desensitised to it. It’s a pity that this government chooses to invest 
in roads and a national car instead of something, which has been proven in the first world, to have benefitted the collective.
