Monorail system needs an overhaul 
17 Oct 2018 / 20:13 H.

THE KL monorail is the most inefficient transport system compared with its brothers the LRT and MRT. Let me relate my experience in riding the monorail recently.
I waited at KL Sentral at about 1pm. The first thing I noticed was that the barrier doors to the track were all open and a notice said they were under maintenance. I remember seeing this notice months ago when I last took the monorail. It looks like nothing has been done to rectify the problem for months.
I waited for 20-25 minutes for the train to arrive. Just imagine having to wait for 20 minutes for this supposedly efficient and quick mode of transport. This is unforgivable and insulting. It's like waiting for the inefficient public buses from years ago.
Naturally the train was very crowded due to the long waiting time and a two-car train being used. The insult went further when the air-conditioner in the train was so weak that it became stuffy and warm, and uncomfortable. I saw a lot of sweating tourists in the train.
This is definitely a bad showcase of our public transport to outsiders.
There were no announcements of the stations and people were cranking their necks to try to catch a glimpse of the station's signage. Due to the inadequate and poor posting of signages, standing passengers were not able to see them.
I alighted at Imbi Station (Berjaya Times Square), relieved that the air outside was cooler than the air-conditioning in the train.
On my return trip from Imbi Station to KL Sentral, the train again took a long 20 minutes to arrive. Air-conditioning was weak again. This time the only difference was there were announcements of the stations. I hope our Pakatan Harapan government can overhaul the monorail system as soon as possible.
Poor Commuter
Kuala Lumpur

RapidKL apologises for stalled Monorail incident
By Bernama - January 18, 2019 @ 6:37pm

KUALA LUMPUR: RapidKL today apologised to its monorail customers for the inconvenience suffered yesterday after one of its 
trains stalled near the Bukit Nanas station following a sudden loss of power. “While we apologise for the inconvenience 
caused, we are grateful that all the passengers were safely evacuated and that there were no injuries in the incident,” it 
said in a statement. The incident occurred at 7.01pm and a rescue train was immediately despatched to help evacuate some 180 
passengers on board the train which stopped after being unable to get traction due to power loss. “Train-to-train evacuation 
was completed at 7.45pm and a shuttle service using a single track was immediately commenced, one between KL Sentral and Bukit 
Bintang and the other between Bukit Bintang and Titiwangsa. The service resumed normalcy at 9.11pm,” said the statement. – 
BERNAMA
